about.md, before:

---
layout: post
title: ""
author: dfl
permalink: /about/
---

Understanding research papers can be hard. Paper authors typically assume that 
you share the same context and prior knowledge that they have. When you don't, 
it becomes hard to follow the paper. Looking for material from which to 
understand all of the references you don’t understand can be tedious, and the 
quality of different materials varies greatly. Sometimes it’s not even clear 
what to start searching to clarify parts of the paper.

We at DFL share an interest in developing a deeper understanding. Together, we 
chose a few modern papers that we believed were important in inspiring new ideas 
and research. We spent some time understanding each paper and writing down the 
core concepts on which they were is built. We then found the best material to 
learn each concept, added exercises to practice our understanding, and met 
weekly to discuss each of the previous week's readings so that we could 
rigorously understand the content. 

We did this across two locations, one at Google AI in Mountain View as part of 
the Google AI Residency and the other at New York University as part of Joan 
Bruna's class on The Mathematics of Deep Learning. We realized that the resources 
we had compiled would be useful to a much broader community, and this repository 
of depth-first study plans is the outcome of that genesis.

DFL was designed to be shared with and grown by the community. It is not limited
to people at Google or at NYU. If you are interested in developing your own 
curriculum for a paper that we do not already host, we will help you! Reach out
to us at depthfirstlearning@gmail.com. We want your help in growing this resource
and making it richer.

- <a href="{{site["avital"].web}}">Avital</a>, <a href="{{site["surya"].web}}">Surya</a>, 
<a href="{{site["krishna"].web}}">Kumar</a>, <a href="{{site["cinjon"].web}}">Cinjon</a>

Commit message:

Added github links to About.md

about.md, after:

---
layout: post
title: ""
author: dfl
permalink: /about/
---

Understanding research papers can be hard. Paper authors typically assume that 
you share the same context and prior knowledge that they have. When you don't, 
it becomes hard to follow the paper. Looking for material from which to 
understand all of the references you don’t understand can be tedious, and the 
quality of different materials varies greatly. Sometimes it’s not even clear 
what to start searching to clarify parts of the paper.

We at DFL share an interest in developing a deeper understanding. Together, we 
chose a few modern papers that we believed were important in inspiring new ideas 
and research. We spent some time understanding each paper and writing down the 
core concepts on which they were is built. We then found the best material to 
learn each concept, added exercises to practice our understanding, and met 
weekly to discuss each of the previous week's readings so that we could 
rigorously understand the content. 

We did this across two locations, one at Google AI in Mountain View as part of 
the Google AI Residency and the other at New York University as part of Joan 
Bruna's class on The Mathematics of Deep Learning. We realized that the resources 
we had compiled would be useful to a much broader community, and this repository 
of depth-first study plans is the outcome of that genesis.

DFL was designed to be shared with and grown by the community. It is not limited
to people at Google or at NYU. If you are interested in developing your own 
curriculum for a paper that we do not already host, we will help you! Check out out
<a href="https://github.com/depthfirstlearning/depthfirstlearning.com#contributing">github</a>
for examples and open an <a href="https://github.com/depthfirstlearning/depthfirstlearning.com/issues">issue</a>
detailing which paper you want to study. We want your help in growing this resource
and making it richer.

- <a href="{{site["avital"].web}}">Avital</a>, <a href="{{site["surya"].web}}">Surya</a>, 
<a href="{{site["krishna"].web}}">Kumar</a>, <a href="{{site["cinjon"].web}}">Cinjon</a>
